## NCR Corporation
*Software Engineering Intern Team Lead (May 2023 - August 2023)*

I am working as a Software Engineering Intern leading a team of 5 other interns
on the **Retail Innovation - Edge Team**.

I am working on a Mock Organization Micro-Service, written in Flask in Python. This API enables the use and production of 

## High Performance Architecture Lab
*Undergraduate Research Assistant (Jan 2023 - Present)*

I am working at the **High Performance Architechture Lab** at Georgia Tech on
**In-Storage GPU scheduling strategies** to maximize memory capacity and
performance in GPUs inflicted by memory latency in SSD access.access. I have
read papers proposing novel approaches to SSD scheduling, including **ZnG,
SBIOS, and PGIS**. Additionally, I have explored the internal workings of
**MacSim** and explored DRAM Simulator Code. With the knowledge gained from
these papers and programs, I am now utilizing strategies proposed in the papers
to develop an outline of a **warp-based SSD scheduling algorithm**.

## NCR Corporation
*Software Engineering Intern (May 2022 - August 2022)*

For 12 weeks, I worked at the NCR Corporation
Headquarters in Altanta, GA. I worked on the **Retail
Innovation - Edge Team**.

With a team of 5 other interns, I worked on the **GoKart Selling Service**,
which is a API written in the **Fiber Web Server** in Golang. This service
allows for the support of **creation, storage, and management of a cart
object** achieved with a unique cart identifier. The cart supports the
inclusion of items retrieved through requests to the **NCR BSP Catalog API**,
and store locations through to the **BSP Site API**. The cart also supports a
selling engine and its pertinent calculations like calculating gross-totals,
totals with promotions applied, exemptions applied, and taxes applied, as well
as the calculation and handling of returns. The app is meant to work with
exsisting **retail e-commerce apps** and **Point of Sale systems**. This was
made to the replace the existing .NET API as this was rather bulky and slow, we
managed to cut down the size of the binary from 100MB to just **5MB** at
comparable performance.

Along with the api, we worked on a sample e-commerce website written in
**Next.js**on incorporating API into the frontend. To help with development, I
also made a **bash script** with 12 different presets to help in development,
building, running and deployment to Google Cloud Platform.

## Notitia
*Software Developer (November 2021 - Present)*

I am working in a start up at Georgia Tech in building a MVP. I worked on
developing a **Full-Stack Website** and working on fine tuning an NLP model for
more accurate results. I worked on a machine learning pipeline that uses
**UMAP** to map the relevant word embeddings of pieces of text onto a 2D graph,
**FAISS** to effieciently cluster these texts and an **LDA model** on these
clusters to find accurate topics for these. In the frontend, I worked on
optimizing WordCloud of test using **ReactFlow**.
