---
author: Kinshuk Phalke
datetime: 2021-10-08T15:22:00Z
title: A Year In review
slug: year-in-review
draft: false
description:
  Reviewing 2021 from my perspective.
---
## table of contents
## introduction
First things first, Welcome to my Blog. It’s finally been done. We moved on
from the placeholder text to this first post. Don’t worry, I am not lazy to
write it’s just that I haven’t been able to take out much time to make some of
the necessary backend and database to achieve this. But I haven’t yet thought
of a name so guess I would have to call it just “Blog” for now. And I hate
introductions, so I promise I’m doing this only once. With that out of the way,
lets actually begin, shall we? 

## "the incident"
The other day I get a notification on my phone when sleeping and things like
these generally don’t wake me up, but this was different like it had like the
annoying Silk Ringtone on it. “College lol” it said, on the corner was written
“52 Weeks Ago”. 52 Weeks Ago, I had, for no reason at all, decided to prank my
future self. Do you know what waking up to Silk is like? It’s like that
annoying kid you meet that just won’t stop talking, you want him to stop but
you don’t want to hurt his feelings. Silk is like that its smooth, groovy, and,
quite honestly, peaceful; but it makes you want to hurl a brick at your phone. 

Okay maybe we got a little too sidelined there. So yeah, I woke up shutdown the
alarm and began thinking about the past year. And I’ll be honest I didn’t
really want to mention COVID here because you probably would have read multiple
different articles and takes on it. But you can’t avoid it in certain
conditions, take it from a high school senior who didn’t write final exams for
example. I’ll try and avoid it as much as possible but as a student my whole
life was kinda defined by it at one point. Hangouts were basically extended
brawlhalla sessions, break probably meant going to the kitchen to get some food
and sleep just meant getting called on by the teacher multiple times and making
lame excuses that your mic wasn’t working, and boredom meant pranking your
future self. 

## what i learned
So anyways there is a lot to unpack in the last year, more importantly what it
meant for my life. A big part of my senior year was consumed by college
applications, thinking about my major and potentially what I want to do in
life. I know it is beyond cringe, but my life’s worth living for when I create
something new, and I’d like to think at some point in my life I would be part
or I daresay lead the creation of products that could one day impact the world.
To me there is nothing more fun than creating something new, whether it is the
new stuff that you get to learn along with it or just getting stuck on a
problem for days at end. That’s what truly drives me. I feel like Computer
Science, my major, is just the means that would help me get there. Being at the
core of almost everything today, I expect to be somewhat helpful in creating
new inventive technologies. It’s very interesting to think how many
revolutionary technologies could be achieved by the end of our time on earth.
Fusion Energy, Photonic Quantum Computing, Deep Space Exploration are just some
that pop off the top of my head. In a way, I think I found myself more through
the college application process. I know it’s beyond tiring to write an essay,
but I found myself thinking harder about who I am and more importantly who I
want to be as a person. In a way, college applications made me, sort of,
connect with myself better and I found myself more confident at the end of it.
I would admit though, the season did turn out to be bit of a disappointment for
me. Now before you get mad at me, I did get into Georgia Tech and I’ll admit
the vibe was a match ever since I found out about it, but hey what’s life
without a little ambition, right? Every once a while you’ll fail and you’ll
find one of either two things: your limit to work or how far you have to work
to get to where you want, its up to you to choose. In case you didn’t notice
that was my way of being Master Oogway.  Anyways, this was supposed to be a fun
blog not a boring life lesson one.

## going to college
Now, we really get to the fun part, me coming here to Tech.  I should say
though travelling halfway across the world in a stuffy airplane is not my kind
of idea to get to the USA but it was the only way. I took a 14h flight from Abu
Dhabi to Chicago and a 2h one to get here from Chicago. But my parents couldn’t
fly here because they didn’t have a Visa so this trip was all me. We did have a
bit of a hiccup along the way. We were kind of late for the connecting flight,
but that was also my first introduction to American airlines; you literally
cannot tell how many things can delay your flight but, in my case, it was a
broken carry-on luggage compartment door. You know those things above your head
that you close, it was off its hinges. We ended up getting delayed by 45
minutes after literally running to the flight during the final call.  But yeah,
we got here safe and sound, stayed in one of the best hotels I’ve stayed in so
far. I don’t know whether it was the best hotel purely because it was a good
one or because I had what probably would be one of my best sleeps in my entire
life (Jetlag does hit hard). There definitely is a lot of unpack after this,
particularly with my experience here, but hey this is just one year that we’re
talking about right now, right?


## what i learned (tech edition)
Finally, I don’t think this post would be over without me talking about me
expanding my technical knowledge this year. But as every programmer has his
beginning mine was Mr. Robot. It’s a pretty cool series about a vigilante
hacker who seeks to expose the darkest secrets or people and how he crashes the
world economy, erasing the world debt and redistributing the world’s money, by
hacking into a multinational conglomerate and shutting them out by a random
hash key. This series really showed me what computers could do and not just in
a harmful way but also how much it can accomplish. So, I picked up my keyboard
and started typing as I learnt Python and Machine Learning. I learnt how to do
Supervised and Un-Supervised learning, I learnt how to make neural networks and
how to work with NLP models. I also learnt JavaScript because of the YouTube
algorithm and ended up getting into Web and App Development. I learnt ReactJS
and I built this website! But I found myself unable to complete some of the
deeper aspects of this Website, so I set out to learn I Node.js, Express.js and
MongoDB and along the way I coded 5 more full-stack apps which used multiple
different technologies. I used Twitter API and a Random Forest NLP model to
analyze tweet text in one website, whereas in the other I used Redis, Docker
and Socket.IO to build a functioning Chat app that deletes chats within 6
hours. Currently, I’m learning Reinforcement Learning and Data Structures an
Algorithm. 

I’m sorry I kind of rushed through the end but this is a pretty big blog post already. So I guess this is the end of it.
